I am here in Manhattan, 50th street, and behind me under that platform
is Tad's roast steaks, one of the first fast food restaurants.
I mean, it's not what we would recognize today. It is more of a cafeteria.
But the idea that you go in and order from a very limited menu with few options,
and it's cheap: that was the idea of ​​the Townsend family and Tad's roast steaks.
But that is not what I am here for.
What I'm going to tell here is about a less successful idea from the 1960s'
Here, in the first building of East 42nd Street, about where McDonald's is now,
she opened Tad's varieties.
Little has been known about this. The only article from that time I could find was in the New Yorker
from 1963, which explained the concept.
You go inside, and choose a frozen meal prepared earlier that day or week,
you take it to a microwave on your table and heat it up yourself.
And that is such a great idea - that has to change the world.
The person who had opened the restaurant even that in the future, there would be only two types of restaurants.
chic, luxurious restaurants where others cook for you, and cafeterias like this one,
where you go inside, choose a frozen meal and heat it up in your own microwave.
And he was almost correct.
But not completely. He has not been able to predict the house microwave, the ready meals and the TV dinners
This actually changed the world.
The restaurant closed soon afterwards, but Ray Kroc, the man who started McDonald's,
he took the advice from the Townsend family.
McDonald's there, is in sizes, a descendant of a restaurant that most likely not
worked on its own, but it did have a "small" mark on history.
Who knows, if history had worked out differently, perhaps there would be microwave cafeteria
around the world.
Pieter Schreurs (Compieter)